User/mwinstanley/remote debugging xbox webview2 (#2846)
MicrosoftDocs/edge-developer: microsoft-edge/webview2/how-to/remote-debugging-xbox.md

## Attach DevTools remotely to an Xbox WebView2 WinUI 2 (UWP) app

Attach Microsoft Edge DevTools remotely to an Xbox WebView2 WinUI 2 (UWP) app as follows:

1.  In Microsoft Edge, go to `edge://inspect`.  The **Inspect with Edge Developer Tools** page opens:

    ![DevTools Inspect utility page](./remote-debugging-images/inspect-devtools-page-supported.png)

1.  Enable Developer Mode on Xbox.  See [Xbox One Developer Mode activation](/windows/uwp/xbox-apps/devkit-activation).

1.  In Microsoft Edge, navigate to `https://<System IP>:11443`.  Verify that the **Confirm security settings** page is loaded (in the **Windows Device Portal** tab).  For these examples, `<System IP>` is the Xbox System OS IP, replace that with your Xbox System OS IP.

    ![The 'Confirm security settings' page in the 'Windows Device Portal' tab](./remote-debugging-images/open-device-portal.png)

1.  You will see an SSL cert error, click show advanced and then click **Continue** to `<System IP>`:

    ![SSL Error](./remote-debugging-images/xbox_ssl_error.png)

1.  Verify the following page is displayed: 

    ![Xbox Device Portal](./remote-debugging-images/unsecure-xbox-device-portal.png)

> 1.  Navigate to `https://<System IP>:11443/config/rootcertificate`. This will download a `rootcertificate.cer` file:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1.  Navigate to `https://<System IP>:11443/config/rootcertificate`. This downloads a `rootcertificate.cer` file:
```
per Acrolinx/ style guides, prefer present tense

<!-- ========================================================================== -->
## Attach DevTools remotely to an Xbox WebView2 WinUI 2 (UWP) app

Attach Microsoft Edge DevTools remotely to an Xbox WebView2 WinUI 2 (UWP) app as follows:

1.  In Microsoft Edge, go to `edge://inspect`.  The **Inspect with Edge Developer Tools** page opens:

    ![DevTools Inspect utility page](./remote-debugging-xbox-images/inspect-devtools-page-supported.png)

1.  Enable Developer Mode on Xbox.  See [Xbox One Developer Mode activation](/windows/uwp/xbox-apps/devkit-activation).

1.  In Microsoft Edge, go to `https://<System IP>:11443`, where `<System IP>` is replaced by your Xbox System OS IP.  The **Confirm security settings** page is displayed, in the **Windows Device Portal** tab:

    ![The 'Confirm security settings' page in the 'Windows Device Portal' tab](./remote-debugging-xbox-images/open-device-portal.png)

    An SSL cert error appears:

    ![SSL Error](./remote-debugging-xbox-images/xbox_ssl_error.png)

> 1.  Click the **Advanced** button. <!--todo: state the system result-->

Reviewer: @maurawinstanley - state the system result, eg:
The Foo dialog opens.

> 1.  Click **Continue**<!--todo: button?--> to `<System IP>`,<!--todo: clarify "Click Continue to System IP"--> where `<System IP>` is replaced by your Xbox System OS IP.

Reviewer: @maurawinstanley - clarify the formatting/wording around this step.  Check nearby screenshots in rendered section/article:
https://review.learn.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-edge/webview2/how-to/remote-debugging-xbox?branch=pr-en-us-2846#attach-devtools-remotely-to-an-xbox-webview2-winui-2-uwp-app

1.  Open the downloaded `rootcertificate.cer` file.  A security warning dialog box opens:

    ![Security warning dialog box](./remote-debugging-xbox-images/open-file-security-warning.png)

1.  Click the **Open** button.  A **Certificate** dialog opens:

    ![The Certificate dialog](./remote-debugging-xbox-images/certificate.png)

1.  Click the **Install Certificate** button.  A **Welcome to the Certificate Import Wizard** dialog opens:

    ![The 'Welcome to the Certificate Import Wizard' dialog](./remote-debugging-xbox-images/current-user-certificate.png)

1.  Select the **Current User** option button, and then click the **Next** button.

    The Certificate Import Wizard opens:

    ![Certificate Import Wizard](./remote-debugging-xbox-images/certificate-import-wizard.png)

1.  Select the option **Place all certificates in the following store**, click the **Browse** button, and then select **Trusted Root Certification Authorities**.

1.  Click the **Next** button.

    A **Security Warning** dialog opens:

    ![Security Warning dialog](./remote-debugging-xbox-images/security-warning.png)

1.  Click the **Yes** button.

1.  Restart Microsoft Edge.

> 1.  Go to `https://<System IP>:11443`, where `<System IP>` is replaced by your Xbox System OS IP, and verify that the connection is indicated as secure:<!--todo: clarify exactly how to verify that the connection is indicated as secure; and add red box on png.  do we mean https in Address bar? specify -->

Reviewer: @maurawinstanley - the png shows as "Not secure":
https://review.learn.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-edge/webview2/how-to/remote-debugging-xbox-images/unsecure-xbox-device-portal.png

Clarify specifically how to verify that the connection is indicated as secure; and add red box on png. do we mean https in Address bar? specify.  What exactly/concretely are we telling user to do?

Reviewer: Rendered section: 
https://review.learn.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-edge/webview2/how-to/remote-debugging-xbox?branch=pr-en-us-2846#attach-devtools-remotely-to-an-xbox-webview2-winui-2-uwp-app
to see if png was changed, etc.

<!-- ========================================================================== -->
## Attach DevTools remotely to an Xbox WebView2 WinUI 2 (UWP) app

Attach Microsoft Edge DevTools remotely to an Xbox WebView2 WinUI 2 (UWP) app as follows:

1.  In Microsoft Edge, go to `edge://inspect`.  The **Inspect with Edge Developer Tools** page opens:

    ![DevTools Inspect utility page](./remote-debugging-xbox-images/inspect-devtools-page-supported.png)

1.  Enable Developer Mode on Xbox.  See [Xbox One Developer Mode activation](/windows/uwp/xbox-apps/devkit-activation).

1.  In Microsoft Edge, go to `https://<System IP>:11443`, where `<System IP>` is replaced by your Xbox System OS IP.  The **Confirm security settings** page is displayed, in the **Windows Device Portal** tab:

    ![The 'Confirm security settings' page in the 'Windows Device Portal' tab](./remote-debugging-xbox-images/open-device-portal.png)

    An SSL cert error appears:

    ![SSL Error](./remote-debugging-xbox-images/xbox_ssl_error.png)

> 1.  Click the **Advanced** button. An option to continue to the page will display. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1.  Click the **Advanced** button. An option to continue to the page is displayed.
```
per style guides, prefer present tense

    ![Advanced Option](./remote-debugging-xbox-images/advanced-option-prompt.png)

> 1.  Click **Continue** to `<System IP>` button, where `<System IP>` is replaced by your Xbox System OS IP.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1.  Click the **Continue** to `<System IP>` button, where `<System IP>` is replaced by your Xbox System OS IP.
```
